[Music]
life isn't easy when you're busy I know
going to the gym is time-consuming well
with all that getting there working out
and going back so if you're not keen on
wasting your time on the road I've got
something for you a 10-minute full body
workout without any equipment whatsoever
all you need is a mat to make you more
comfy on the floor surely you have a man
without any further ado let's get
started with number one
jumping jacks these are a great warmup
and a nice cardio exercise to get your
blood pumping before strength training
if you don't feel like going for a run
jumping jacks will do the trick just as
well stand straight with your feet
hip-width apart and arms along your
sides now jump up bringing your feet
apart and raising your arms to clap your
hands overhead as soon as you touch the
floor jump up again getting back into
the starting position kind of like at a
pop gig do this exercise for a full
minute then immediately get on to the
next one it's important not to rest
between the exercises in this workout to
make your muscles engage for the whole
time
number two pendulum lunges these are
your basic lunges with a twist you don't
just do them forward or backward but
both ways at once when you do them like
this you engage your hips thighs and
glutes from all sides making it all the
more effective stand straight with your
feet together and arms along your sides
take a step back with your right leg and
land on the ball of your foot now bend
your knees and touch the right one to
the floor while keeping your core and
glutes engaged don't bend in the waist
it will create unnecessary strain in
your lower back and ruin the exercise
now push yourself up and forward
straightening your left leg and swinging
your right one forward in a pendulum
motion without stopping at the standing
position step forward on your whole foot
and bend your knees again this time
touching your left knee to the floor
again keep your core engaged and your
back straight push yourself up and back
into another rep all in all it should
look like the most hesitant spring steps
before a run ever repeat this move for
30 seconds and then switch your legs and
have another 30 second go with your left
one number three pause squats this is an
upgrade to regular squats that add some
static load to the dynamic one your
quads hamstrings and glutes will burn
and you'll love it
stand up straight with your feet
shoulder-width apart lower into a squat
bending your knees and pushing your
buttocks out keep your back straight and
don't lift your heels off the floor just
imagine there's a chair behind you and
sit on it just don't forget it's
imaginary though when you're in a squat
stay still for three seconds feel the
absence of the chair then finally get up
into the starting position and do it all
over again ten reps should convince you
there's no actual chair number for
mountain climber twist we're going up
this exercise will train your core abs
and to a lesser extent your hips get
into the push-up position with your
palms on the floor right beneath your
shoulders and your lower body propped on
your toes bring your right leg to your
chest twisting your core at the same
time and trying to touch your knee to
your left elbow put the leg back down
and repeat with your left leg and right
elbow overall imagine there are steps
you're going up but you'd like to do it
in style
full 30 seconds of this catwalk will do
the job
number five burpees admit it he just
rolled your eyes don't do that please
what kind of workout would it be if
there were no burpees there fast and
furious engaging almost your entire body
and adding that much wanted cardio
effect to the bunch anyway
let's refresh it in your memory stand up
with your feet hip-width apart then bend
those knees and put your hands on the
floor kick those legs of yours behind
you to get into the push-up position and
do just that
I mean bend your elbows until you touch
your chest to the floor and then push
yourself back up in a powerful move
simultaneously bringing your legs under
your body push with your legs to propel
yourself up straighten up and raise your
hands in the air when you land
immediately go for another rep that's a
Burpee for you ten times will be just
fine
[Music]
number six blast-off push-ups here comes
the serious stuff where regular push-ups
only train your shoulders triceps back
and chest blast-off variation goes much
further it makes your whole body work
add the ABS hips and glutes to the
muscles I just mentioned it's a real
workout machine start off in the
standard push-up position placing your
hands right beneath your shoulders and
your feet on tiptoes lower yourself to
touch the floor with your chest then
push yourself back up now to the
interesting part when you've returned to
the initial position bend your knees and
push your buttocks back until you almost
sit on your heels your hand should
remain on the floor where you put them
your back must stay straight and your
abs tightly squeezed it's basically a
lovechild of a squat a Burpee and a
push-up return to the initial position
again and repeat if you want to add some
more hard core to this exercise you can
push yourself up at the back movement
and make a jump with your arms raised to
the ceiling
this way you'll burn your thighs and
glutes that is if you're not tired of
engaging them yet if you are just take
it easy
and do it like I told you earlier how
about 10 reps for blast-off push-ups - I
think it's quite enough number seven
Diamond push-ups in fact push-ups are
quite a versatile exercise if you know
how to do them this variation for
example engages your biceps much more
than the regular one who needs dumbbells
when you've got everything you need just
under your foot I mean the floor get
into the regular push-up position first
with your hands right beneath your
shoulders and in blah blah we've done
that several times already you know what
to do right now move your hands closer
together until your four fingers and
thumbs touch forming the shape of a
diamond bend your elbows and lower your
body to touch the floor with your chest
keep your back flat and make sure your
arms are as close to your torso as
possible keeping your elbows apart will
shift the string and your biceps will
get less fun
now push yourself back up and repeat do
10 reps here as well number 8
back extensions you don't want to forget
about your back do you this exercise
looks ridiculous but it's awesome for
your lats which are the largest back
muscles as well as your abs and even
lower back lie on your stomach face down
with your legs straight and your arms
along your body
try not to squash your nose on the mat
now squeeze your abs and lift your head
and shoulders off the floor keep this
position for a couple of seconds and get
back down repeat this for 30 seconds and
get ready for the last exercise of this
set number 9 triceps dips yep
triceps are the last muscles in this
full body workout and you can target
them easily with dips all you need is a
couch or a chair or any elevated surface
for that matter even steps will do if
they're high enough sit on the couch and
place your hands at your sides grabbing
the edge tightly with your fingers slide
your butt from the couch and prop
yourself on the heels keeping the legs
straight and the hands still there on
the ledge make sure your elbows are
straight as well as your entire body
from shoulders down now bend your elbows
at a right angle and push yourself back
up that's it
1 reps done as simple as that now repeat
it 20 times and you're free ok so this
is a workout for almost every muscle in
your body and it only takes 10 minutes a
day you can do it every other day
without harm because it only uses your
bodyweight and doesn't strain you too
much just don't forget about a good old
warm-up before you start
well jumping jacks are there for you so
good training to you by the way before I
forget you can also add your own
exercises and variations to this list or
just increase the number of reps for
each of the ones I told you about today
it'll make the whole routine a bit
longer but it'll bring you much more
benefits later and you'll
still not need to go to the gym so time
will be well-spent
now what other exercises would you add
to this full body workout let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't Burpee just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life